# Credit Risk Classification
Module 20 Challenge submitted by Kali Notaras

-------------------
## Overview of the Analysis
The purpose of this analysis was to construct, train and evaluate the predictive power of a Logistic Regression supervised machine learning model in evaluating loan risk. The model was given data that characterised a range of current loans, and labelled them according to their Credit Risk, as either 0 - 'Healthy / Low-Risk' or 1 - 'High-Risk'. The model was designed to predict this Credit Risk status (loan_status) based on the characterised information given per loan, including the following features:

 - loan_size: The monetary value of the loan / amount borrowed ($)
 - interest_rate: The interest rate determined for the loan, as paid by the borrower on top of the loan value (%)
 - borrower_income: The annual income of the borrower ($)
 - debt_to_income: The ratio of total monthly debt repayments owed by the borrower, divided by their monthly income (proportion; from 0-1).
 - num_of_accounts: How many debt / loan accounts the borrower has in their name
 - derogatory_marks: How many negative items the borrower has on their credit reports, including items such as late payments and foreclosures.
 - total_debt: The total amount of debt owed by the borrower across all accounts ($).

The stages of the machine learning process proceeded as follows:
 - The data was split into 'labels' (loan_status) and 'features' (all other columns'). The model will use the information contained in the features to explain, and furthermore predict, the correct label per loan item.
 - The data was split into training and testing datasets. This was with a random state of 1, and with stratification.
 - The Logistic Regression model was initiated using the LogisticRegression() function from sklearn. It was initiated using the random_state parameter 1, and the solver 'lbfgs'.
 - The model was fitted using the training data; using the known labels provided by the training data, the model looked for predictive indicators and significant points of variance to explain the labels applied.
 - The now-trained model was applied to the testing dataset, without labels provided. The predicted values were stored and analysed.
 - The model's performance was evaluated by generating a confusion matrix and a classification report, to determine the accuracy, precision and recall values for the predicted test values.

-------------------------
## Results
 - Accuracy Scores: 0.99 overall
 - Precision Scores: 1.00 healthy risk, 0.87 high-risk
 - Recall Scores: 1.00 healthy risk, 0.89 high-risk
 - F1-Scores: 1.00 healthy risk, 0.88 high-risk

--------------------------
## Summary
The Logistic Regression Model is better at predicting the healthy loans than the high-risk loans, with an f1-score of 1.00 and 0.88 respectively. This means that less than 0.5% of high-risk loans were incorrectly identified as high risk. This can be confirmed by the confusion matrix; of the 18746 loans predicted as healthy, only 67 were actually high-risk loans for a 0.357% inaccuracy. The confusion matrix also confirms that of the 638 loans predicted to be high risk, the prediction model incorrectly identified 80 loans that were actually healthy. This is more acceptable than the previous kind of inaccuracy, as approving high-risk loans can be signficiantly more costly to the loan company. The overall accuracy of the model is 0.99, which is very high. This logistic regression model has a very acceptable level of accuracy for its purpose, and I would recommend its use by the stakeholder company.

-----------------------------
## References
Data for this dataset was generated by edX Boot Camps LLC, and is intended for educational purposes only.
